Today we're gonna discuss
prescriptive analytics.
And the first thing I would like to
do is discuss the differences between
prescriptive analytics and descriptive and
predictive analytics to which you were
exposed in the previous lectures.
Descriptive analytics takes data,
collects it, and
tries to map the data to patterns
that you can understand in the data.
And predictive analytics try to
take the behavior of consumers and
predict from their past behavior what
they're going to do in the future.
What we're going to do with prescriptions
is we're going to try to give
a recommendation.
We're going to try and say given
the prediction that we had before and
given the description of how consumers
interact with let's say companies and
with other consumers,
can we give a recommendation
on what the company needs to do in order
to change the behavior of consumers.
We will cover four things today.
We will cover how to define a prescription
problem, or how to define a goal,
and what we would like to solve in order
to improve the actions of a company.
Or define two terms which
are the objective of a company, or
the goal of a company, and also we will
try to look at how a company can optimize.
What can a company do in
order to reach that goal and
what actions can a company
do to achieve that goal?
Finally we are going to look at models.
We're gonna discuss how taking an action
connects to the goal of the company and
influences that.
And towards the end, we're gonna take a
very brief introduction into competition,
or how companies interact and
respond to actions by other companies.
The first thing I would like to do
is tell you what the problem is.
Now, it sounds very vague, so
I'm gonna show an example in a few
seconds, but by saying a problem,
what I would like to say is,
I would like to say I need to have a goal.
Something I would like to maximize,
to optimize, to achieve.
And I can achieve this
goal by taking actions.
Now the way to map how actions
influence the goal is called the model.
And now let's take a few minutes
to take a look at the very,
very unique example that actually
you've seen in the previous lecture.
So the first example I would
like to talk about is,
how do you find what is the optimal price,
or the best price to set, in order to
sell the maximum quantity of product.
So in the descriptive lecture, Professor
Iyengar has shown you before the following
demand curve or the following graph.
And in this what you can see on the x-axis
is the price you set for a product.
And on the y-axis,
you can see the quantity being sold when
you change the price of the product.
And as you can see, when you increase
the price, the quantity goes down.
Now let's try to define an objective or
a goal.
And the first thing we would like
to do is we would like to say
how can we sell the most
quantity of the product?
How can we maximize the quantity
of the product being sold, right?
In this case, the goal or the objective
is just to maximize quantity.
The quantity we wanna make
it as large as possible.
And the action we can take
is just a simple action.
We can just change the price.
We can change the price of the product,
increase it or decrease it.
And by changing the price,
we either encourage or
discourage consumers whether to buy or
not to buy the product.
Finally, we need a model.
Now models can be very, very complex, but
in this case we already have the model,
and the model is basically the graph
I showed you two slides ago, and
you can also see on
the bottom right corner.
And the model basically tells us,
if we change the price,
let's say if we increase the price,
by how much did the quantity go down?
For example we look at this graph,
we can see that
setting a price of 1 sold
the maximum quantity of the product.
And the question is, can we change
the price even more to do better?
Can we use some sort of prediction or
recommendation to give to the company to
say, can we increase the quantity sold?
And the answer is actually, yes.
We may not be able to give money
to people to buy the product.
We can't actually spend money
to get them to buy the product.
We can probably give them the product for
free.
We can actually set the price to be 0.
In this case we're taking
the regression we've seen before, or
kind of extending the line
to the left hand side.
And then we can see using the regression
equation, that if we plug in x=0,
which means the price equals 0,
we'll get the volume of y of 10.13,
which is the maximum quantity we can sell.
So, in this example, what I tried to
show you is we can change the price to
increase or decrease the quantity sold.
Our goal was to maximise the quantity we
sell, and the model was just the graph and
the regression equation that
Professor Iyengar had shown you.
And I've shown you how finding
a lower price increases the quantity.